.\" pkgadd.conf(5) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd September 6, 2023
.Dt PKGADD.CONF 5
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgadd.conf
.Nd configuration file for pkgadd
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm /etc/pkgadd.conf
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This manual page describes the format of the
.Pa pkgadd.conf
file.
This file can be used to alter the way
.Xr pkgadd 8
upgrade and/or install the package.
.Pp
.Sy pkgadd.conf
file contain rules, that are built out of three fragments:
.Sy Event ,
.Sy Pattern
and
.Sy Action .
The
.Sy Event
describes in what kind of situation this rule applies.
Currently there are two types of events:
.Em UPGRADE
and
.Em INSTALL .
.Em UPGRADE
rules are applied when a package is installed over an existing version,
and
.Em INSTALL
rules are applied in any case.
The
.Sy Pattern
is a regular expression.
The
.Sy Action
applicable to both the
.Em UPGRADE
and
.Em INSTALL
event is
.Em YES
and
.Em NO .
More than one rule of the same
.Sy Event
type is allowed, in which case the first rule will have the lowest
priority and the last rule will have the highest priority.
.Pp
For example:
.Bl -column EventXX PatternXXXXXXXXXXXXX ActionX -offset indent
.It Sy Event Ta Sy Pattern Ta Sy Action
.It UPGRADE  Ta ^etc/.*$             Ta  NO
.It UPGRADE  Ta ^var/log/.*$         Ta  NO
.It UPGRADE  Ta ^etc/X11/.*$         Ta  YES
.It UPGRADE  Ta ^etc/X11/XF86Config$ Ta  NO
.El
.Pp
The above example will cause
.Xr pkgadd 8
to never upgrade anything in
.Pa /etc
or
.Pa /var/log
(subdirectories included), except files in
.Pa /etc/X11
(subdirectories included), unless it is the files
.Pa /etc/X11/XF86Config .
The default rule is to upgrade/install everything, rules in this file
are exceptions to that rule.
.Pp
.Sy Important :
The
.Sy Pattern
should never contain an initial slash
.Pq Ql /
since you are referring to the files in the package, not the files on
the disk.
.Pp
If
.Xr pkgadd 8
finds that a specific file should not be upgraded it will install it
under
.Pa /var/lib/pkg/rejected/ .
The user is then free to examine/use/remove that file manually or use
.Xr rejmerge 8
to manage rejected files.
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/var/lib/pkg/rejected/" -compact
.It Pa /etc/pkgadd.conf
Configuration file for
.Xr pkgadd 8 .
.It Pa /var/lib/pkg/db
Database of currently installed packages.
.It Pa /var/lib/pkg/rejected/
Directory where rejected files are stored.
.El
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh EXAMPLES
What follows is a sample configuration file which may, or may not
match your environment:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#
# /etc/pkgadd.conf: pkgadd(8) configuration
#
# See pkgadd.conf(5) for more information.
#

# <Event>      <Pattern>                  <Action>

# Default rule (implicit)
#UPGRADE       ^.*$                       YES

UPGRADE        ^var/log/.*$               NO
UPGRADE        ^var/spool/cron/.*$        NO
UPGRADE        ^var/run/utmp$             NO

UPGRADE        ^etc/rc.*$                 YES
UPGRADE        ^etc/rc\e.conf$             NO

# End of file.
.Ed
.Pp
All lines which begin with the
.Qo Li # Qc
character are comments and will not be parsed.
The first three rules will cause
.Xr pkgadd 8
to never upgrade anything in
.Pa /var/log
(subdirectories included), never upgrade anything in
.Pa /var/spool/cron
and never upgrade
.Pa /var/run/utmp
file.
The last two rules will cause
.Xr pkgadd 8
to upgrade any
.Pa /etc/rc*
files, except
.Pa /etc/rc.conf
system settings.
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pkgadd 8
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
