.\" pkgadd(8) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd January 04, 2024
.Dt PKGADD 8
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgadd
.Nd install or upgrade software package
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pkgadd
.Op Fl Vfhuv
.Op Fl c Ar conffile
.Op Fl r Ar rootdir
.Ar file
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a package management utility, which installs or upgrades a software
package.
The package itself is an archive of files, and its contents have a
directory structure format.
.Pp
The following archive formats are supported:
.Bl -tag -width XX -compact -offset XX
.It \(bu .pkg.tar.gz
.It \(bu .pkg.tar.bz2
.It \(bu .pkg.tar.lz
.It \(bu .pkg.tar.zst
.It \(bu .pkg.tar.xz
.El
.Pp
By default,
.Nm
does not preserve packages' Access Control Lists
.Po
.Xr acl 5
.Pc
and Extended attributes
.Po
.Xr xattr 7
.Pc
unless it has been compiled with that support.
To see if these options are enabled, check the command output of
.Sy pkgadd \-v .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar conffile , Fl \-config Ns = Ns Ar conffile
Specify an alternate configuration file instead of the default
.Pa /etc/pkgadd.conf .
.It Fl f , Fl \-force
Force installation, overwrite conflicting files.
.Pp
If the package that is about to be installed contains files that are
already installed this option will cause all those files to be
overwritten.
.Pp
.Sy This option should be used with care, preferably not at all .
.It Fl r Ar rootdir , Fl \-root Ns = Ns Ar rootdir
Specify an alternate root directory instead of the default
.Ql / .
.Pp
This should
.Em not
be used as a way to install software into e.g.
.Pa /usr/local
instead of
.Pa /usr .
Instead this should be used if you want to install a package on a
temporary mounted partition, which is
.Dq owned
by another system.
By using this option you not only specify where the software should be
installed, but you also specify which package database to use.
.It Fl u , Fl \-upgrade
Upgrade/replace package with the same name as
.Em file .
.It Fl v , Fl \-verbose
Explain what is being done.
.It Fl V , Fl \-version
Print version and exit.
.It Fl h , Fl \-help
Print help and exit.
.El
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/var/lib/pkg/rejected/" -compact
.It Pa /etc/pkgadd.conf
Default configuration file.
.It Pa /var/lib/pkg/db
Database of currently installed packages.
.It Pa /var/lib/pkg/rejected/
Directory where rejected files are stored.
.El
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pkginfo 1 ,
.Xr pkgadd.conf 5 ,
.Xr pkgrm 8
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
