.\" pkginfo(1) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd September 6, 2023
.Dt PKGINFO 1
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkginfo
.Nd display software package information
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl Vh
.Op Fl r Ar rootdir
.Pf { Fl f Ar file | Fl i | Fl l
.Pf { Ar pkgname | Ar file Ns } | Fl o Ar pattern Ns } Ns
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a package management utility, which displays information about
software packages that are installed on the system or that reside in a
particular directory.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f Ar file , Fl \-footprint Ns = Ns Ar file
Print footprint for
.Ar file .
.Pp
This feature is mainly used by
.Xr pkgmk 8
to create and compare package footprints.
.It Fl i , Fl \-installed
List installed packages and their version.
.It Fl l Pf { Ar pkgname | Ar file Ns } , Fl \-list Ns = Ns Pf { Ar pkgname | Ar file Ns }
List files owned by the specified package or contained in
.Ar file .
.It Fl o Ar pattern , Fl \-owner Ns = Ns Ar pattern
List owner(s) of file(s) matching
.Ar pattern ,
where the pattern is a regex in
.Xr regex 3
format.
.It Fl r Ar rootdir , Fl \-root Ns = Ns Ar rootdir
Specify an alternate root directory instead of the default
.Ql / .
.Pp
This should be used if you want to display information about a package
that is installed on a temporary mounted partition, which is
.Dq owned
by another system.
By using this option you specify which package database to use.
.It Fl V , Fl \-version
Print version and exit.
.It Fl h , Fl \-help
Print help and exit.
.El
.Pp
.Sy Note :
Options
.Fl f Ns / Ns Fl \-footprint ,
.Fl i Ns / Ns Fl \-installed ,
.Fl l Ns / Ns Fl \-list ,
and
.Fl o Ns / Ns Fl \-owner
are mutually exclusive.
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/var/lib/pkg/db" -compact
.It Pa /var/lib/pkg/db
Database of currently installed packages.
.El
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pkgadd 8 ,
.Xr pkgrm 8
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
