# pkgadd.conf(5) manual page
# See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

pkgadd.conf - configuration file for pkgadd

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B</etc/pkgadd.conf>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This manual page describes the format of the F<pkgadd.conf> file.
This file can be used to alter the way L<pkgadd(8)> upgrade and/or
install the package.

B<pkgadd.conf> file contain rules, that are built out of three
fragments: I<EVENT>, I<PATTERN> and I<ACTION>.  The I<EVENT> describes
in what kind of situation this rule applies.  Currently there are two
types of events: B<UPGRADE> and B<INSTALL>.  B<UPGRADE> rules are
applied when a package is installed over an existing version, and
B<INSTALL> rules are applied in any case.  The I<PATTERN> is a regular
expression.  The I<ACTION> applicable to both the B<UPGRADE> and
B<INSTALL> event is B<YES> and B<NO>.  More than one rule of the same
I<EVENT> type is allowed, in which case the first rule will have the
lowest priority and the last rule will have the highest priority.

For example:

        UPGRADE        ^etc/.*$                   NO
        UPGRADE        ^var/log/.*$               NO
        UPGRADE        ^etc/X11/.*$               YES
        UPGRADE        ^etc/X11/XF86Config$       NO

The above example will cause L<pkgadd(8)> to never upgrade anything in
F</etc> or F</var/log> (subdirectories included), except files in
F</etc/X11> (subdirectories included), unless it is the files
F</etc/X11/XF86Config>.  The default rule is to upgrade/install
everything, rules in this file are exceptions to that rule.

B<NOTE!> The I<PATTERN> should never contain an initial C</> since you
are referring to the files in the package, not the files on the disk.

If L<pkgadd(8)> finds that a specific file should not be upgraded it
will install it under F</var/lib/pkg/rejected/>.  The user is then
free to examine/use/remove that file manually or use L<rejmerge(8)> to
manage rejected files.

=head1 EXAMPLES

What follows is a sample configuration file which may, or may not
match your environment:

        #
        # /etc/pkgadd.conf: pkgadd(8) configuration
        #
        # See pkgadd.conf(5) for more information.
        #

        # Default rule (implicit)
        #UPGRADE       ^.*$                       YES

        UPGRADE        ^var/log/.*$               NO
        UPGRADE        ^var/spool/cron/.*$        NO
        UPGRADE        ^var/run/utmp$             NO

        UPGRADE        ^etc/rc.*$                 YES
        UPGRADE        ^etc/rc\.conf$             NO

        # End of file.

All lines which begin with the C<#> character are comments and will
not be parsed.  The first three rules will cause L<pkgadd(8)> to never
upgrade anything in F</var/log> (subdirectories included), never
upgrade anything in F</var/spool/cron> and never upgrade
F</var/run/utmp> file.  The last two rules will cause L<pkgadd(8)> to
upgrade any F</etc/rc*> files, except F</etc/rc.conf> system settings.

=head1 FILES

=over 8

=item F</etc/pkgadd.conf>

Configuration file for L<pkgadd(8)>.

=item F</var/lib/pkg/db>

Database of currently installed packages.

=item F</var/lib/pkg/rejected/>

Directory where rejected files are stored.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pkgadd(8)>

=cut

# vim: cc=72 tw=70
# End of file.
