=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

pkgadd - install software package

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pkgadd> [I<OPTION>]... I<FILE>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<pkgadd> is a package management utility, which installs a software
package.  A package is an archive of files (.pkg.tar.gz, .pkg.tar.bz2,
.pkg.tar.lz, .pkg.tar.zst, or .pkg.tar.xz).

=head1 OPTIONS

Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options
too.

=over 8

=item B<-u>, B<--upgrade>

Upgrade/replace package with the same name as I<FILE>.

=item B<-f>, B<--force>

Force installation, overwrite conflicting files.

If the package that is about to be installed contains files that are
already installed this option will cause all those files to be
overwritten.

I<This option should be used with care, preferably not at all>.

=item B<-c>, B<--config>=I<FILE>

Specify alternate configuration file.

=item B<-r>, B<--root>=I<PATH>

Specify alternate installation root (default is C</>).

This should I<not> be used as a way to install software into e.g.
F</usr/local> instead of F</usr>.  Instead this should be used if you
want to install a package on a temporary mounted partition, which is
"owned" by another system.  By using this option you not only specify
where the software should be installed, but you also specify which
package database to use.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Explain what is being done.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and exit.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print help and exit.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 8

=item F</etc/pkgadd.conf>

Default configuration file.

=item F</var/lib/pkg/db>

Database of currently installed packages.

=item F</var/lib/pkg/rejected/>

Directory where rejected files are stored.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pkgadd.conf(5)>, L<pkgrm(8)>, L<pkginfo(1)>

=cut

# vim:sw=2:ts=2:sts=2:et:cc=72:tw=70
# End of file.
