README.md, before:

OVERVIEW
--------
This directory contains pkgutils, a set of utilities like pkgadd(1),
pkgrm(8), and pkginfo(1) that are used for managing software packages:
adding, removing and basic information gathering.

This distribution is a fork of CRUX' pkgutils as of commit 9ca0da6
(Sat Nov 17 2018) with the following differences:
- command-line options/usage in GNU style
- manual pages in mdoc(7) format
- split pkgadd(8) manual page into pkgadd(8) and pkgadd.conf(5)
- support zstd packages

See git log for complete/further differences.

The original sources can be downloaded from:
1. git://crux.nu/tools/pkgutils.git              (git)
2. https://crux.nu/gitweb/?p=tools/pkgutils.git  (web)


REQUIREMENTS
------------
**Build time**:
- C++ compiler
- POSIX sh(1p) and "mandatory utilities"
- GNU make(1)
- libarchive(3) to unpack an archive files

Also, see [rejmerge][1], an utility that merges files that were
rejected by pkgadd(8) during package upgrades.

[1]: https://github.com/zeppe-lin/rejmerge


INSTALL
-------
The shell commands `make && make install` should build and install
this package.  See `config.mk` file for configuration parameters, and
`pathnames.h` for absolute filenames and settings that pkgutils wants
for various defaults.


LICENSE
-------
pkgutils is licensed through the GNU General Public License v2 or
later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
Read the COPYING file for copying conditions.
Read the COPYRIGHT file for copyright notices.

Commit message:

README.md: note about bashcomp in INSTALL, cleanup

README.md, after:

OVERVIEW
--------
This directory contains pkgutils, a set of utilities like pkgadd(1),
pkgrm(8), and pkginfo(1) that are used for managing software packages:
adding, removing and basic information gathering.

This distribution is a fork of CRUX' pkgutils as of commit 9ca0da6
(Sat Nov 17 2018) with the following differences:
- command-line options/usage in GNU style
- manual pages in mdoc(7) format
- split pkgadd(8) manual page into pkgadd(8) and pkgadd.conf(5)
- support zstd packages

See git log for complete/further differences.

The original sources can be downloaded from:
1. git://crux.nu/tools/pkgutils.git              (git)
2. https://crux.nu/gitweb/?p=tools/pkgutils.git  (web)


REQUIREMENTS
------------
**Build time**:
- C++ compiler
- POSIX sh(1p) and "mandatory utilities"
- GNU make(1)
- libarchive(3) to unpack an archive files

Also, see [rejmerge][1], an utility that merges files that were
rejected by pkgadd(8) during package upgrades.

[1]: https://github.com/zeppe-lin/rejmerge


INSTALL
-------
The shell commands `make && make install` should build and install
this package.  The shell command `make install_bashcomp` should
install bash completion script.

See `config.mk` file for configuration parameters, and `pathnames.h`
for absolute filenames and settings that pkgutils wants for various
defaults.


LICENSE
-------
pkgutils is licensed through the GNU General Public License v2 or
later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
Read the COPYING file for copying conditions.
Read the COPYRIGHT file for copyright notices.
